How I made my website gif

A brief history of computers user Interfaces

Back when dinosaurs roamed the earth, and reality was in black a white, there was a room-sized computer and someone was deciding how to talk to it.

They had electronic telegram machines, where you'd type "sos" on a qwerty keyboard and down some wire a signal of ---...--- would be sent, and the other end a machine would read that signal and decode it as "sos" and print it out on some paper.

They took a telegram machine and set it up so you talk to this room-sized computer via telegram.

And then nothing.

NOTHING!

Computers still are running as if they were being talked to via telegram, and everyone is maintaining a pile of shit to hide the shame that no one has made a new (successful) os in decades.

That is what a terminal is, you talking to a computer via telegram; do not treat it like magic.

Breaking down the magic Linux-ism line

The first and by far most complicated line of code is 
#!code/magicline

This one line is 90% of the difficulty of how this project was made and I will be breaking it down slowly 

#!

This character combo, at the start of a file, tells a Linux system that this is a script.

And a script, using this very important bit of computer history, is when a computer pretends it sends itself a telegram. Character to character, as if a human wrote it.

It is followed by which "shell" or "telegram listener" it should send the file to.

/usr/bin/env -S sh -c

I don't know what this actually does and copy and pasted off a website :D

dmd -run gengif.d

Dmd is the basic compiler for D and '-run' makes it run, while gengif.d is the name of the file

|

A "pipe", is when the output of a program is used *drum roll* as a telegram for another program.

convert

This is part of the "image magick" toolkit, I believe the part of the tool kit for converting files, maybe. So just imagine a wizard.

-size 840x360 -depth 8

"expect a image size of 840x360, and 8-bit numbers"

rgb:-

The - is magic in Imagemagick for piped input, the rgb: is overloading the data channel format.

output.gif

The output I wonder what file type.

Putting it all together, you do that hardest part of all programming, getting a computer to just even remotely consider listening to you.

Artist rendering of the process:

15-line version


Voronoi diagrams and growing circles

It's a well-known result that growing circles will produce a Voronoi diagram, I'm very much not breaking ground here.

To render a Voronoi diagram (in a terrible way) each pixel asks "What color is my nearest point"

To render a circle (in a terrible way), each pixel asks "How far away from the center am I" and compares it to the radius

To render a "ring" it's the same as the circle but there's a minimum radius

This all quite naturally combines, where I precomputed the color and distance for each pixel, and in each frame, the precomputed result is compared to a global min and max distances. All I needed to do was keep the min distance quite small for a long time, and well the end seemed boring I added some complexity.

Random circles alone are interesting

Using the same logic a precomputed layer of data of a distance and indexed color, circles that pop in and out are enough to make something worth looking at.

Instead of a random color tho, I grabbed the color from the layer 1 Voronoi diagram to keep it consistent.

Animation is simple math, with terrible tooling

With those tools in hand, the question becomes, what to set these 4 values?

It was awful trial and error and it's this awful bit of code; so here's a helpful graph. I would like to see these sorts of things be easy to draw, I don't understand why the tool doesn't exist where you draw some lines, and you get some math out, or hell a list of values.

Optimizing gifs

After that was all said and done, it was still a little lifeless, and 2 megabytes, more than I want to trust will download instantly.

So gifs are a list of pictures and you can just change the timings, so I found the website https://ezgif.com/ and started deleting frames and made some key frames longer, such as the first one; giving your computer time to get a head start to download the image and getting it down to 357.8 kB
